PEP 738: Android support, draft 2 (#3651)
python/peps: peps/pep-0738.rst

ELF binary format. It does not use glibc, instead providing its own C
library implementation called Bionic. As a result, it is generally not
binary-compatible with any other Linux distribution, even if the architecture

> matches. It also has a completely different filesystem layout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
matches. It also has a filesystem layout that doesn't adhere to the Linux 
`Filesystem Hierarchy Standard (FHS) <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filesystem_Hierarchy_Standard>`__.
```

Author: I've used a more general wording so it's clear it doesn't follow any Unix standard at all.

  linker (lld), and headers for all the system libraries.

  Binary compatibility between libraries compiled with different versions of the
  NDK is generally very good, but for reproducibility it would be best for each
  Python version to stick with one NDK version throughout its life. For Python
  3.13, this would be the current NDK long-term support version, r26.

  Each NDK version can be set to target any of a wide range of Android versions.
  For example, NDK r26 supports :ref:`API levels <738-os-versions>` 21 to 34.
  However, binaries compiled for an older Android version will usually keep on
  working indefinitely on newer versions; exceptions to this rule are only made
  for security reasons.

* Gradle is the tool used to build complete, deployable apps.

> .. (spacer)

Reviewer 2: Hmm, I can see why you did this, but it results in two `<ul>`s of two and one `<li>`s respectively, instead of a single `<ul>` of three `<li>`s:

<img width="187" alt="image" src="https://github.com/python/peps/assets/1324225/4cdbac69-43ec-4ccc-b40d-29a71eb4db49">

For accessibility, it'd be better to have the markup reflecting semantics: one list of three items.

Does anyone know if there's a better way to do add space between bullets in Sphinx that doesn't affect the underlying markup in this way?

Author: I spent some time searching but I couldn't find one. Apparently Sphinx only adds `<p>` tags inside the `<li>` if the item contains multiple paragraphs.

Reviewer 2: @AA-Turner Any Sphinx suggestions for this?

Author: https://github.com/readthedocs/sphinx_rtd_theme/issues/354 suggests that `.. rst-class:: open` is supposed to wrap every list item in `<p>` tags. But when I try it, it doesn't have any effect except adding a CSS class, which has no corresponding rules in any style sheet.

Could we work around this by adding a rule to the PEPs theme?

```css
ul.open li {
    margin-top: 1em;
    margin-bottom: 1em;
}
```

Reviewer 2: Something like that could work, would you like to open a new PR so we can get a build preview and check it in isolation?

Author: OK, I think I've found a solution which will improve the rendering of many other PEPs at the same time. So I've removed the manual adjustments from this PR, and I'll create an independent PR with my idea.

Author: * https://github.com/python/peps/pull/3662

* ``x86`` has not been supported as a development platform since 2020, and no
  new emulator images have been released since then.

> .. (spacer)

Reviewer 2: Same here:

<img width="225" alt="image" src="https://github.com/python/peps/assets/1324225/85ac8f17-43ca-4886-8461-9a6b214e2c49">

Standard library
----------------

Unsupported modules
'''''''''''''''''''

A number of standard library modules will not be supported on Android because
the underlying C APIs are not available:

* ``curses`` and ``readline``
* ``dbm.gnu`` and ``dbm.ndbm``
* ``grp``
* ``multiprocessing`` – although subprocesses in general are allowed (see `App
  lifecycle`_), Android does not support any part of the `System V IPC API
  <https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/sysvipc.7.html>`__.
* ``tkinter`` and ``turtle`` – these would require an Android build of Tk
  itself, which is not officially supported.

``sys``
'''''''

``sys.platform`` will return ``"android"``. Although Android is based on Linux,
it differs in enough significant ways that a separate name is justified.

When embedded in an Android app, the C-level stdio streams are not connected to
anything. So in this mode, ``sys.stdout`` and ``sys.stderr`` will be redirected
to the system `Logcat <https://developer.android.com/studio/debug/logcat>`__,
which can be viewed with the Android development tools. ``sys.stdin`` will

> simply return EOF.

Reviewer: Very minor language style nit - I find it's advisable to avoid the use of "simply", "just", and other words that downplay the complexity of the thing being done. This is especially important in tutorial-like material; but even in technical specification work like this one, the extra word doesn't add any meaning - and in this case, downplays the complexity associated with redirecting stdin at the OS level.

Reviewer 2: Here's a good talk on avoiding "simply": 

* https://www.writethedocs.org/videos/prague/2018/don-t-say-simply-jim-fisher/
* https://blog.knowledgeowl.com/blog/posts/dont-say-simply-jim-fisher/

Author: OK, I've replaced it with "always".

In addition, a ``platform.android_ver()`` method will be added, which returns a
namedtuple containing the following:

* ``release`` - Android version of the device, as a string (e.g. ``"14"``)
* ``api_level`` - :ref:`API level <738-os-versions>` of the device, as an

>   integer (e.g. ``34``)

Reviewer: What's the future of `sys.getandroidapilevel()`? If the API Level is available here in the platform module, should we deprecate the `sys` mechanism? Personally, I've always found the `getandroidapilevel()` method to be an odd wart, so I'd be in favor of deprecating it; but I guess it doesn't *hurt* to keep it around.

Author: I agree, but it's been the de-facto mechanism to detect Android for so long now, that I think it would be too disruptive to remove. Virtually every package that's ever added Android-specific code is using it, and we wouldn't want to start off the era of official CPython Android support by breaking them all, even after a 2 year deprecation period.
